---
layout: post
slug: "0003"
vendor: "Google"
status: "fixed"
reported: "2021-01-29"
title: "De-anonymising Anonymous Animals in Google Workspace"
---

**Summary:**

In products that use the same real-time collaboration system as Google Docs, "Anonymous Animals" can leak the underlying user's identity by exposing the real `userId` of the victim. If the attacker already knows the `userId` of a given victim, she can de-anonymise the victim when the victim is an "Anonymous Animal".

**Core Issue:**

Every active Google Docs user is polling the `/bind` endpoint for new real-time events. If a new user opens the document, every already connected user will receive a "connection event" from the `/bind` endpoint with the new user's user object which includes the new user's name, profile picture, and among others, the `userId`.

This `userId` is unique for only one product. So for example Docs, Sheets and Slides use different `userId`s for the same underlying Google user.

The core issue is that when a user is an "Anonymous Animal", her `userId` should also be anonymous, and not the same as her real identity's `userId`. Currently a user's real `userId` and "Anonymous Animal" `userId` is the same, allowing an attacker to de-anonymise a victim.

**Steps to reproduce:**

1. Create 2 Google accounts: `Attacker` and `Victim`
2. [`Attacker`] Create a new Google Docs document and invite `Victim` using her email address, as a viewer
3. [`Attacker`] Start monitoring the `/bind` responses
4. [`Victim`] Open the Google Docs created in `Step 2.`
5. [`Attacker`] See the victim's user object in the `/bind` responses, and note the victim's `userId`
6. [`Attacker`] Create a new Google Docs document and share it to `anyone with the link` -> `Viewer`
7. [`Attacker`] Start monitoring the `/bind` responses
8. [`Victim`] Open the Google Docs created in `Step 6.`
9. [`Attacker`] See the Anonymous Animal's user object in the `/bind` responses, and see that this `userId` is the same `userId` previously noted in `Step 5.`

**Impact:**

This issue **could be used to de-anonymise victims just by making them visit a malicious link/website** which could redirect to/embed an attacker controlled e.g. Google Docs, which when opened by the victim, leaks the victim's `userId` to the attacker.

This requires a targeted attack, since an attacker needs to have pre-collected mapping data between `userId`s and Google accounts.

I wanted to find a way to increase the impact and convert a `userId` to a name/email, but I didn't have any success. If it's somehow possible to convert a `userId` to a name/email, it would allow mass de-anonymisation of every Google user who visits a malicious link.

**[Disclosure Warning]:**

*This is a new system I am experimenting with:*

**This issue is subject to a 90 day disclosure deadline.** On `2021-04-29` this report with all additional comments will be publicly disclosed. Sensitive details from the report/comments such as names/email addresses will be redacted. If you would like to redact additional information or if for some reason the issue can't be fixed until the deadline, let me know in a comment.

Thank you!