---
layout: post
slug: "0006"
vendor: "Apple"
status: "fixed"
reported: "2020-09-20"
title: "Path Traversal in MobileSafari"
---

**Summary:**

I have found a path traversal issue in Safari, present in iOS 14.0.
When saving a web page as PDF into Files, Safari uses the page's `<title>` tag as a file name, without sanitising it first, leading to path traversal.

**Steps to reproduce:**

1. Set up a webserver hosting this HTML file:

```
<title>/../../Library/Preferences/</title>
<h1>Hello world!</h1>
```

{:start="2"}
2. Open the page in Safari
3. Tap `Share`
4. Tap `Options` -> Set `Send As` to `PDF` -> Tap the back arrow
5. Tap `Save to Files`
6. An extension-less file named `pdf` was created at `/private/var/mobile/Containers/Data/Application/[safari's UUID]/Library/Preferences/pdf`

This file was created by the `MobileSafari` process.

**Extras / limitations:**

- If the `<title>` tag ends with a `/`, a file named `pdf` will be created.
- If the `<title>` tag doesn't end with a `/`, `.pdf` is always appended at the end of the file.
- If the file to create already exists, a `-1` or `-2` (incremental number) will be added to the filename, before the first dot. (example: if `/Library/Preferences/com.apple.mobilesafari.plist.pdf` already exists, pressing `Save to Files` will create `/Library/Preferences/com-1.apple.mobilesafari.plist.pdf`)
- If a file path outside the app folder is provided, a warning in the Console from the `kernel` process will show. e.g.: `Sandbox: MobileSafari(1756) deny(1) file-write-create /private/var/pdf`.

A malicious attack could may use this vulnerability to permanently crash Safari by creating a file which Safari is unable to parse.

As far as I know Safari can't be deleted/reinstalled, so I'm not sure how to remove these test/malicious files from Safari's filesystem.

Thank you, \
David

*This issue was fixed in [iOS/iPadOS 14.5](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212317) and in [watchOS 7.4](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212324).*